==========================
How to build Documentation
==========================

:Date: |today|


Abstract
========

This is a quick guide to create documentation.

Introduction
============

We at nexiles make documentation with Sphinx_.
Therefore we have an own sphinx theme called NxSphinx_.

docs.nexiles.com
================

Our documentation is hosted on https://docs.nexiles.com.

There are currently 2 sections in there:

**public**
    contains public documentations

**internal**
    contains internal documentation

A nexiles certificate is needed to access the latter one.
Ask the Administrator to get your own certificate.



distributing documentation
==========================

To bring your docs to https://docs.nexiles.com, you need to have the
following prerequisites:

#. Sphinx_ and Fabric_ is installed. See `requirements.txt` inside this
   project for version infos.

#. You have a local account on `docs.nexiles.com` and you are in the group `nexiles`.

#. You are in the local network of nexiles GmbH.

#. The documentation is located at the `docs` folder inside your project.

#. You have `nexiles.buildtools` cloned and located at
   `~/develop/nexiles/nexiles.buildtools`


The next step is to customize your `fabfile.py` of your project.
You can extend your `fabfile.py` as follows::

    import os
    import sys

    from fabric.api import env

    sys.path.append(os.path.expanduser("%s/fab" % os.getcwd()))

    env.projectname = "nexiles.buildtools"
    from docs import build_docs, publish_docs


Now you can build your documentation like this::

    $ fab build_docs

And distribute it to `docs.nexiles.com` like this::

    $ fab publish_docs:version=0.1

The newest docs get automatically generated by a cronjob on the server.

.. _Sphinx: http://sphinx.pocoo.org/
.. _Fabric: https://github.com/fabric/fabric
.. _NxSphinx: https://github.com/nexiles/NxSphinx
.. _nexiles.buildtools: https://github.com/nexiles/nexiles.buildtools

.. vim: set ft=rst ts=4 sw=4 expandtab tw=78 :
